---
title: Contributing
keywords: CBPTT, overview, contributing
last_updated: July 14, 2017
tags: [getting_started]
summary: "How to contribute to this project"
sidebar: cbptt_sidebar
permalink: cbptt_contributing.html
folder: cbptt
toc: true
---

The CBPTT is an open-source project. While it was conceived and is maintained by Coinbase, our vision is to have the community actively
contribute to the project, but please note the following:

# Before submitting any PRs, please take note

This is an open-source project. This means that there are as many different ideas and thoughts on how to code, test and architect as there are contributors. This also means that getting code into production will often take longer than your average closed-source or corporate project and _way_ longer than any project that you run yourself.

All contributions must adhere to the [General Coinbase Contribution Guidelines](https://github.com/coinbase/coinbase-pro-trading-toolkit/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md) and [Code of Conduct](https://github.com/coinbase/code-of-conduct)

To contribute to the CBPTT, [fork the project on GitHub](https://github.com/coinbase/coinbase-pro-trading-toolkit/), make your changes and [submit them as a PR](https://github.com/coinbase/coinbase-pro-trading-toolkit/pulls).

In addition to the general Coinbase contribution guidelines, there are some additional guidelines for the CBPTT specifically.

## Product Roadmap

Check the [Product Roadmap](./cbptt_roadmap.html) and see whether your contribution is within the scope of the project. If it is, great! If not, you still have a few options

1. Open a new issue, outlining your proposal / feature-request, and _indicate that you are willing to code it up yourself_.
1. If your idea sits in Layer 3 or 4 (as defined in the Roadmap), the best approach is actually to _start a new project_, use the CBPTT as a library, and then [open a new issue][1] so that we can link to your project or bot from our documentation.

The following PR types are the most welcome and will almost certainly be merged:
* Bug fixes!
* Unit tests (see notes on tests below)

## Coding language

Pull requests must be written in [TypeScript](www.typescriptlang.org). If you're a Javascript programmer, don't fret, the learning curve is very flat.
TypeScript is a superset of Javascript, but because it is statically typed, whole classes of bugs are eliminated from your
code before it reaches us. Since the CBPTT can work with real money, we feel this is a good thing.

### Code Style

Make sure your code passes the linting tests before submitting your PR.

We use [TSLint](https://palantir.github.io/tslint/) for syntax checking. The specific rules we apply
are configured in the `tslint.json` file in the project folder.

To run the linter run

    yarn run lint

You can auto-fix many of the more typographic errors, assuming you've installed tslint globally by running

    tslint -p . --fix

You can also make your life much easier by adding TSlint integration into your editor. WebStorm / IntelliJ for example,
auto-fix many errors by running the Reformat-Code command.

### Unit tests

We also welcome new tests to help move our test coverage towards 100%.

As with the coding guidelines, we have standardised on some libraries and practices for testing, so here are some testing PR dos and don'ts.

To run the full battery of unit tests run `yarn test`

To get coverage statistics, run `yarn run coverage`

#### Do
* Include tests with your general PRs
* Submit PRs that add new tests to improve test coverage (This is a great way to learn the API and uncover edge cases, BTW)
* Use [Mocha](https://mochajs.org/) BDD syntax (`describe`, `it`) for defining tests
* Use the standard `assert` module for assertions.

#### Don't
* Add new testing or assertion libraries as dependencies (e.g. chai, cucumber, etc.)
* Don't let your unit tests make network calls (Use [nock](https://github.com/node-nock/nock) for HTTP request mocking)

### Documentation

Document your classes! The API reference documentation is automatically generated by [TypeDoc](http://typedoc.org/).
TypeDoc strips out the comments from files to generate reference documentation. The format is almost identical to JSDoc
with a few tweaks; primarily that you needn't include all the `param` and `return` fields because TypeDoc can infer this
directly from the code.

{% include warning.html content="If you run TypeDoc locally to view your generated documentation, *do not check those changes into your PR*!
For one, it adds too much noise to the PR and secondly, we will automatically update the API docs anyway." %}

### PR hygiene

* Try and keep your PRs contained to a single feature or bugfix. It makes them easier to review.

* **Do not** commit IDE-specific files and metadata. Preferably, don't add those files to `.gitignore` either. You can locally ignore files by adding them to the `.git/info/exclude` file in your local working tree. This file follows the same rules as `.gitignore`. So for example, to exclude Webstorm metadata without changing the `.gitignore` file, I could run

```
$ echo ".idea" >> .git/info/exclude
```

* If you want to embark on a large-scale refactoring effort, please open an [issue][1] first to discuss this. In particular, breaking changes or wide-ranging changes to interfaces are likely to get rejected if they haven't gone through a preview and discussion first.



[1]: https://github.com/coinbase/coinbase-pro-trading-toolkit/issues
